Incoming livestream: All right, good afternoon, unprompted. So, very excited, to have you around. So, I'm Nikolatisborske, go by Nico. I'm a Principal Software Engineer at Google.
Incoming livestream: working on, Google Workspace security.
Incoming livestream: Been working security for 25 years now, so, super exciting to have all of you around trying to tackle that, very, very complex, issue. So, big thank you to my wife, my kids, our patients, and their love, enabling me to do something I really love.
Incoming livestream: Hi. Sure, let's do it. Actually, what I want to do is… List.
Incoming livestream: All right.
Incoming livestream: Okay. All right, so…
Incoming livestream: Today, we are basically confronting very defining security challenges for generative AI era. Like, perfect storm where, basically, traditional security boundaries are simply no longer enough.
Incoming livestream: Like, I'm going to share with you what we observed over the last couple of years, like, what we've been doing about it. I've been basically doing…
Incoming livestream: Gen AI security for 3 years now, and there's a lot of things, a lot of lessons we learn along the way. I want to share them so people are not repeating the mistake, and actually trying to build, like, really secure software.
Incoming livestream: So first, we'll start by dissecting the threat. Like, pretty much a new prompt as code environment that has deep access to very sensitive data.
Incoming livestream: So that then, we're going to examine, like, cat and mouse game, and how it's futile right now. Exposing, like, failure reactive filtering.
Incoming livestream: Then, we're going to… the core of the session is going to be about architecting the fortress, where we are trying to present, like, a new structural security blueprint to hopefully make things secure. And finally, to cover, like, semantic resilience, discussing the importance of, like, continuous testing, rigor, human loop confirmation to secure AI.
Incoming livestream: So, we are right now a very crucial and very stormy era for security. Things are going really fast.
Incoming livestream: But, like, unlike traditional application security.
Incoming livestream: where we could rely on filtering for syntactic patterns, like script tag or SQL injection code. In Gen AI world, like, the prompt is code.
Incoming livestream: Like, every single token in the input stream is a potential instruction.
Incoming livestream: So… and the instructions are semantic rather than syntactic. They can be obfuscated in many ways, but a standard infrastructure, like firewall, a filter, will never catch.
Incoming livestream: So, we are facing two distinct, but somewhat synergistic issues here.
Incoming livestream: First, like, semantic shift. In traditional app security, we have deterministic parsing. There's a SQL injection, everybody have seen what they look like, and so often, like, software engineers that are facing projection, they're asking, oh, why can't you block it just like a SQL injection?
Incoming livestream: But in general, the grammar is natural language, which is inherently very fuzzy.
Incoming livestream: Like, the analogy is no longer just breaking syntax, it's shifting the context. So attacker can use linguistic techniques like persuasion, role-playing, to bypass standard filters. So the model is interpreting intent rather than executing rigid commands.
Incoming livestream: The second issue we have is front desk code.
Incoming livestream: That basically collapses the control plane. So in classical computing, like, code and data are separate. In LLM, we deal with context learners. So they treat the system instruction as user input, the data.
Incoming livestream: as a single and contiguous stream of token. So this is very structural vulnerability we deal with, and there's no real out-of-bond way to tell the model, these 500 tokens are just data, do not execute them. No NX bit for the memory.
Incoming livestream: So, to the model, every token is a potential instruction, which allows the data to overwrite, like, the instruction that… and we have prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: So understanding the difference is very critical for the difference in-depth, because we need tools to monitor malicious intent.
Incoming livestream: But it's not just that, it's also, like, construction hijacking that will happen.
Incoming livestream: So, in the productivity environment that we have, the main risk we face from LLM is indirect prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: So, indirect prompt injection is… the main thing is hidden, like a zero-click supply chain attack. Maliche instruction is buried, often in external, untrusted content that can be, like, a calendar invite or an email, not in the user direct prompt.
Incoming livestream: then it's going to exploit benign action. That attack can be triggered when a user performs a very normal, useful action automation, like having an AI summarize the day, and that caused the agent to ingest and execute the hidden prompt.
Incoming livestream: And the core issue we have here is ambiguity. So, the LLM treats all incoming texts, whether it's a trusted system instruction or untrusted external data, as single command, allowing external payload to override the agent instruction.
Incoming livestream: So this enables impact at scale. Like, every… a single malicious document or invite can spread and activate thoroughly across many users. So that turned a very benign feature into hidden phishing or data acceleration channel.
Incoming livestream: So here I have an example of a couple years ago, visually illustrating a concrete example of the zero-clickness of indirect prompt injection attack.
Incoming livestream: So here we have a malicious payload that's hidden within a Gmail message, and invisible to the user.
Incoming livestream: And when an AI agent is going to perform a pretty benign, helpful task, like summarization, it will ingest a hidden text, which effectively overrides the instruction, executing a DAC command.
Incoming livestream: And that exactly demonstrates the danger we have with prompt ascot principle, applied to untrusted quota here.
Incoming livestream: So, weather risk is very limited here, because it's basically mostly the content that's going to be replaced.
Incoming livestream: We have to be extremely careful when we're going to use more complex workflows that potentially can do action.
Incoming livestream: So the second major risk we have encountered is insecure output handling.
Incoming livestream: Like, specifically a thread around Markdown acceleration.
Incoming livestream: So, markdown issues are fundamentally, like, rendering attack. Like, a large language model can be prompted to generate malicious markdown that is going to be rendered, often in HTML, that will include resources, like images or links, and forcing requests to an attacker server.
Incoming livestream: So, that enables silent acceleration. You potentially have data that's supersensitive appended to an external resource URL, leaking it when the resource is fetched. So, for example, the data here can be hidden in just a query parameter of an image link.
Incoming livestream: And the final critical thing to have in mind here is the verification gap.
Incoming livestream: Like, the end user only see, potentially, a broken image icon or failed link rendering in the output. But the attacker already won. It successfully captured sensitive data inside their server log, without the user even knowing it. And that's a real-world vector, similar to what demonstrated for, you know, like, a colleague a year ago.
Incoming livestream: So, the third and major usage risk, of course, is around rogue actions. We're playing a critical leap in the threat model, and that engineering world is fully enabling.
Incoming livestream: And the first element with this is, what we call an agency gap.
Incoming livestream: With viability in reasoning, when there's a disconnect between the user actual intent and autonomous execution performed by AI agent.
Incoming livestream: So, because agent reasoning is non-deterministic, minor prompt variation can lead to accidental rogue action. For example, agent intentionally emailing sensitive data to the wrong person, just because of a name conflict, and just figure out, oh, that's close enough.
Incoming livestream: The second issue is orchestration hijacking. Like, rogue actions are frequently a result of compromised orchestration layer, where the LLM serves as planner for tool calls.
Incoming livestream: And this is even more prevalent with a MCP system. But, like, malicious actors can exploit it by using that indirect prompt injection to manipulate the directed data, or just planting dormant triggers that is going to have consequences later on.
Incoming livestream: And, the trigger will not occur to hijack communication between agent or manipulate the planner into calling tool with authorized parameters.
Incoming livestream: So, a vote action can be time-based or event-based, occurring long after the initial input was processed, effectively mask the source of the attack. You can have that projection inserted in the database, and a layer later, it's being executed.
Incoming livestream: Finally, we have confused deputy. So that's happened when the orchestration layer grants an agent permission that exceeds the specific authorization expected by the end user. So that allows rogue action to potentially bypass standard access control and act as privileged proxy.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: I think you've all seen it, but, like, Simon Williamson, coined the term, lethal trifecta to define the convergence of factors that elevate the risk associated with the generic system here. So, the agent has deep access to sensitive private data, like email, personal file, document, etc.
Incoming livestream: Then, the agent has continuous
Incoming livestream: exposure to untrusted external content, from new email, incoming messages, change requests. And third, the agent possess capability to execute external command through API calls.
Incoming livestream: So, when those three elements converge within a single system, the LLM can effectively transform into a powerful and very tempting application layer that attackers can manipulate for high-impact rogue action.
Incoming livestream: So you're going to see, like, an example of real-world vector that was presented, like, at BlackAir last year, which is an invitation all you need.
Incoming livestream: That, Ben Nasi, Tafko, and earlier. So that, in that case, an attacker will send a Google Calendar invite with hidden payload. And nothing happens until the user simply asks, what's on my schedule today?
Incoming livestream: That sounds like very benign requests when you're there. And then the agent will ingest the invite, understand the malicious instruction, and then can move laterally, exhal data, or doing other action.
Incoming livestream: So in our case, we protected the execution of data pretty well, but some home action, like, we did not realize, like, they can potentially be very scary. So in that case, control of light, control of home curtains, control of temperature of the heater.
Incoming livestream: So, no zero day at a vulnerability exploited, no malware installation, no link click required, and you can have a real consequences in the world.
Incoming livestream: So, now we're gonna see how simply trying to filter prompt is fundamentally a losing game.
Incoming livestream: So, why trying to win that cat-mouse game with a filtering proposition?
Incoming livestream: Like, there's three main areas I can justify. First, static filter that includes, like, block lists and regex, they operate purely on syntax. So they can be very, very easily defeated by a simple obfuscation technique.
Incoming livestream: So, basic phone coding, hex string, ROC13. The LLM understands it without any special instruction.
Incoming livestream: And the moment the data is encoded, the pattern the filter is looking for simply breaks, and the malicious instructions are allowed to pass through.
Incoming livestream: The second element is ML classifier. Sounds great. They are better than basic patterns, but they lack true semantic depth. So, attacker can bypass probabilistic models using subtle changes, like synonym swapping, translating the payload to a low-resource language, for example.
Incoming livestream: Of just using adversarial prefixes. So this method can nudge the model confident just enough for malicious intent to sneak through detection. And you just need, like, one bypass, and you can get through.
Incoming livestream: So finally, like, multimodal attacks demonstrate a critical blind spots we have. Like, text-only filters are completely blind to instruction hidden in visual or audio formats. So malicious instruction can be just buried in image, metadata.
Incoming livestream: Or hidden in text and images.
Incoming livestream: And using OCR evasion technique that bypassed standard text processing pipeline entirely. So, this constant inadequacy across all reactive filtering layers proved that a structural solution is required to do better.
Incoming livestream: Another technique that's been prevalent has been the use of LLM as such, particularly requesting a certain LLM to review the response before it's sent back to the end user.
Incoming livestream: Our critical flow here, though, is recursive prompt injection. When the secondary LLM judge reviews untrusted data, it is subject to same semantic vulnerability primary model.
Incoming livestream: So the attack pattern here is due to the fact that judge and attacker share the same semantic interface. Payload can include instruction aimed specifically at the judge.
Incoming livestream: So an example is, like, semantic gaslighting, where you're just going to say malicious context will instruct the judge to review the following as safe, even if contact execution commands are the thief for research. Trust me.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: All traditional vulnerabilities that live in poorly sanitized string, or broken authentication check. Agent vulnerability live in language and context.
Incoming livestream: So, malicious payload is syntactically innocuous and looks like plausible user requests.
Incoming livestream: So reactive guardrails and pattern matching are inherently inadequate, because threat actors will constantly leverage evolving techniques, such as, like, multimodal hidden text injection, to maintain evasion superiority.
Incoming livestream: And you do not want to play cat on March, because you're always behind, and you'll get exploited.
Incoming livestream: So what can you do? How can we leap forward as a defender? We need to identify stronger and layered foundation, unable to tackle complex attacks.
Incoming livestream: So the first layer that you come up with is ensuring… it sounds very basic, but that's a reality. Just ensuring that the input into the agentic system is low risk.
Incoming livestream: So, what you've been doing is, for example, is going to do visible content only.
Incoming livestream: Like, in case of email, we want to get rid of anything that is not visible to the end user. There's no point in sending, like, hidden HTML to an LLM. It's all about what we, what the user sees, so we get rid of hidden text and notification.
Incoming livestream: The second is input filtering. You want to block content that is deemed risky. Like, if we already know that an email is likely spam or phishing, there's no reason to expose the poor LLM to that content.
Incoming livestream: And finally, we want to leverage as much abuse signal as possible, like implement data provenance tracking to enforce policy, such as, like, user affinity, user risk score, prompt injection classification, throughout the system, so we always know where we are.
Incoming livestream: The second layer is dealing with the context stand as prompt 2DL. So we are going to try to do prompt delimitation and reinforcement. It's not linguistic marker, and adversarial training to harden context window.
Incoming livestream: So one technique is to leverage, like, Sentinel token, which is basically token encapsulating content. We're going to mark inside the prompt where the data is.
Incoming livestream: Then we're going to try to have prompt reinforcement, explaining to the LLM, to be, where to be careful, why to be careful.
Incoming livestream: and also rely on fine-tuning, training model to strictly ignore imperative commands found within data delimiters. It's absolutely not perfect, but it moves a little bit the bar, which is better than nothing.
Incoming livestream: And again, this is all about layers. The third layer is to enable deterministic orchestration decisions to get stateful policy enforcement.
Incoming livestream: So we program to implement, like, security logic to forbid dangerous action sequences. We have state-aware session tracking, which means we have an orchestrator that maintains finite state machine, tracking risk level of contacts, and then we can dynamically restrict downstream capabilities based on data origin.
Incoming livestream: And then we can have deterministic policy, where at every application step, we can do enforcement, not just on the initial problem. An example would be to require human confirmation for mutation and data sharing change.
Incoming livestream: Or we can actually deny action. For example, after accessing sensitive user data, you do not want to do a web request on the internet. So we're going to constrain the problem to something that can be deterministically protected.
Incoming livestream: The last layer of protection is protecting the output via output sanitization and validation. So here, the output ELM is typically marked down, but we render out of HTML, so we are parsing and scrubbing down that markdown to eliminate anomalies, such as unwarranted images, link protocol. So we perform dynamic URL classification.
Incoming livestream: So, we have dynamic URL classification, where we're going to identify malicious URL. If it's in safe browsing data as malicious URL, there's no reason to render it.
Incoming livestream: And finally, we ensure that ungrounded links that have been hallucinated by the LLM are scrapped.
Incoming livestream: Like, if the LM just come up with a URL, likely it's not great.
Incoming livestream: So, everything is great, but to survive that perfect storm that is coming, and an attacker that will be relentless, we cannot be static. Like, true systemic resilience is achieved through relentless cycle of testing, validating, and learning.
Incoming livestream: So, the first pillar for the systemic resilience is automatic regression testing. So we must run, like, automatic regression testing framework that is going to repeatedly and systematically subject our system to all known classes of agentic attacks.
Incoming livestream: So, framework is engineered specifically to capture regression.
Incoming livestream: Meaning to ensure that defense we built last month is not inadvertently broken by a new feature developed this week. You also want to try many times your attack, because of the probabilistic nature of LLM. Sometimes you try the same attack 10 times, and 1 out of 10 it will work, and you won't get rid of that problem.
Incoming livestream: So, the goal is to pre-empt sophisticated agent attacks that can penetrate the production environment.
Incoming livestream: And something super important here is it takes a village to do that. And securing AI at this scale requires deep collaborative partnership with dedicated, like, red team that are going to find zero-day vector, and a co-engineering team that implements structural defenses.
Incoming livestream: Another element we rely on is our VRP program, Volunteer Work Program.
Incoming livestream: and dedicated hacking event like bug swap. So we work with security researcher to try to challenge our systems and push them to find vulnerability and fix them proactively.
Incoming livestream: So, when high-stake, irreversible action happens, we cannot fully rely on agent autonomy.
Incoming livestream: So to mitigate risk of wrong action, we implement a structural pattern known as Plan, Validate, Execute.
Incoming livestream: So, whenever there's any sensitive task, like moving data or sharing a file, we are going to pause. So, first, we're going to, set up the planning to know what is going to happen. Then, we're going to have a gatekeeper, an action where…
Incoming livestream: If an action breaks dynamically generated policy, or misaligned with the user intent, we're going to block the action and ask a question for human confirmation.
Incoming livestream: But if something is completely off the guardrails, like, for example, we have contextual Asian security framework like Consecar, that can dynamically detect something going off the rails, we can just block things right away.
Incoming livestream: And finally, if everything passes, we can actually execute the action.
Incoming livestream: And there's still a lot of UX research to deal with review fatigue and rubber stamping. Like, first people to keep verifying things, they'll just become approval bots.
Incoming livestream: So, the one element in the world of generative AI, security to obscurity is not viable defense. Like, we have to recognize that the different action
Incoming livestream: a decision can appear as an OPEC box, and to combat that, we have actually provided, like, detailed logs to admin to allow them to understand what is going on, review what happened, and fix issues.
Incoming livestream: Then, the final pillar of systemic resilience here is to incorporate user-driven signal directly into security posture.
Incoming livestream: So, in that case, we're going to rely on security not being just a line, but actually being a loop.
Incoming livestream: We empower users with feedback, allow us to… allow them to send us and report us whenever they feel they dealt with AI hallucination or prompt injection. And we can incorporate that in our detection service, detect if we catch things too… too much things, not enough things, and we can adjust things. I have a lot of experience with spam and abuse, and we apply that experience here.
Incoming livestream: So, now three takeaways here. So, first, we have to shift philosophy entirely with semantics and boxing. Like, the cat and mouse game of filtering is over. We cannot rely on simple, like, blacklists or machine learning classifier, because prompt is called.
Incoming livestream: And we need to build, like, systemic semantic sandbox with different things in that.
Incoming livestream: The second, it's very important to have, trust provenance, understanding data and tracking it throughout the agency lifetime. So we need to understand, like, what file got access, what's the sensitivity level, so we understand at any point in time what is potentially being accelerated, and provide those guardrails whenever it happens, like to confirmation or just blocking things.
Incoming livestream: And finally, systemic resilience. We need to design for adaptive security and robustness.
Incoming livestream: Like, we cannot secure Gen AI as a one-shot, with a one-time measure. It's a continuous and self-correcting process we need to have with automated testing, and offering transparency and ability for people to report things. So we can actually embedding human loop, monitoring feedback, and we can have adaptive differences, but constantly strengthen
Incoming livestream: of the process.
Incoming livestream: So, I hope that was super helpful, and do we have any questions this stage?
Incoming livestream: Request in the back, hold on.
Incoming livestream: Right there.
Incoming livestream: Thanks very much for the, taxonomy and the idea, the set of ideas around how to, how to address the issue.
Incoming livestream: I think we're kind of all dancing around the real issue, which is, in building LLMs and AIs, we've made the same mistakes we made when we chose the von Neumann architecture over
Incoming livestream: the,
Incoming livestream: Turing architecture, where by combining code and data in memory, buffer overflows work, instead of having code and data in separate memory structures.
Incoming livestream: And by combining code and data in the same single prompt window, we've made the same mistake.
Incoming livestream: Why wouldn't we separate two separate… just two separate windows, separate interfaces? One is where you're entering the commands, and the other where you're sending the data.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, it's… I'm saying it's…
Incoming livestream: An interesting part is, like, been working in Secure for, like, 25 years, it's, it's very interesting how much we are going back in time, and we are back in the time of Windows 95, everything running at the same user, like, barely any monitoring and so on. And I do feel it's,
Incoming livestream: We have to get… like, unfortunately, things are moving extremely fast.
Incoming livestream: Unfortunately, slash fortunately, things are going so fast, but we need to think very strongly about how to build things with different in-depth, and different by default, so we are not, like, catastrophically building systems that are insecure. Like, we had talked earlier today with someone showing, like, 600, fixes already for their vibe-coded projects, supposedly for security. And it's, like, it's very, very scary that people, like.
Incoming livestream: are jumping in, and we have so much creation of new code that is super vulnerable.
Incoming livestream: And sure, we are going to have LLM to fix a vulnerability, but it's a never-ending loop, and attackers have a tendency to be really fast.
Incoming livestream: And people are not patching things very quickly. We had, years ago, we worked on a project where we discussed a lot of vulnerabilities, where the median time for critical vulnerability to be patched by, enterprise was 30 days.
Incoming livestream: So now if we're going to find vulnerability, like, in a few minutes, and it takes 30 days for people to patch, it's not going to be great. So we definitely need, as an industry, to do so much better in security. We need a lot of new ideas, and applying the security by default, security by design principle for everything that's being created. Otherwise, it's going to be really sad.
Incoming livestream: Fair.
Incoming livestream: All right, thank you.